Now let's examine some logs
generated by Suricata.
In Suricata, alerts and events are output
in a format known as EVE JSON.
EVE stands for Extensible Event Format and
JSON stands for
JavaScript Object Notation.
As you previously learned, JSON uses
key-value pairs, which simplifies both
searching and
extracting text from log files.
Suricata generates two types of log data:
alert logs and network telemetry logs.
Alert logs contain information that's
relevant to security investigations.
Usually this is the output of signatures
which have triggered an alert.
For example, a signature that detects
suspicious traffic across the network
generates an alert log that
captures details of that traffic.
While network telemetry logs contain
information about network traffic flows,
network telemetry is not always security
relevant, it's simply recording what's
happening on a network, such as a
connection being made to a specific port.
Both of these log types provide
information to build a story during
an investigation.
Let's examine an example
of both log types.
Here's an example of an event log.
We can tell that this event is an alert
because the event type field says alert.
There's also details about the activity
that was logged including IP addresses and
the protocol.
There are also details about the signature
itself, such as the message and id.
From the signature's message,
it appears that this alert relates
to the detection of malware.
Next up, we have an example of
a network telemetry log, which shows us
the details of an http
request to a website.
The event type field tells
us it's an http log.
There's details about the request.
Under hostname,
there's the website that was accessed.
The user agent is the name of software
that connects you to the website.
In this case,
it's the web browser Mozilla 5.0.
And the content type, which is the data
the http request returned.
Here it's specified as HTML text.
That sums it up on the different
types of log outputs.
In the upcoming activity,
you'll be applying what we just explored
by getting hands-on with Suricata.
Have fun!